okay eddie was extension veterinarian now this
was about 1945 am i wrong that was uh that was uh in
the let me see uh yes uh eddie left here about the
first of september of 45 and i went into that office
about you know i they they uh they hired i was still
in the service And I thought, well, if I can get a job
like that, that'll help me to get out of the
service. But let me see. In May of 45, Jack Heaton
and I had opened our office out here. We were still
in the service. The old colonel said it was all
right with him. Somebody says, well, if they find
out about that in Washington, they'll transfer
you clear out of this country. Well, we said, we've
been here too long anyway. We started that
practice, and one of us needed to get out of the
service to get out there to it. So I thought, well,
if I can get that job as state veterinarian, I'll be
here close to it. So I took that job that Eddie had,
and I was there for a year. Let me ask you this. Back
in those days, was the state veterinarian really a
state veterinarian back then or not?
They had... They had a
lot of authority and a lot of power.
In fact,
I used my power in reverse in many instances where I
didn't think it was necessary to quarantine a herd
or take some kind of action. Well, I helped Yeah,
for instance,
in
the fall of 45, there were some Brahma Bulls. You
may know about this. The Mexicans down there on the
border, what were their names? The Garas? What?
The Garas. Garas. Garas, that's the one. They
brought those... those red bremas in from Brazil.
Now, when they left Brazil, they were Brazilian
bulls. They got into Mexico, they were Mexican
bulls. They came across the border into Texas.
When they got over here, they reverted back to
Brazilian bulls. Well, we needed that blood. We
needed that blood, you know.
We didn't know about it. We didn't know about it
until the following April. In April of 46, Francis
and I were in Hermosillo, Mexico, at a U.S. and
Mexico sanitary meeting. And somebody told me
that we had some Brazilian bulls in Texas. What are
you going to do about it? I says, I don't know until I
get home. I came home. Those bulls had been in
contact with those highly susceptible cattle
from here for six months. I said, what are you going
to do with these bulls? They said, we're not going
to do anything with them. We're going to keep them
right here. I says, if you'll keep those bulls
right here, we're going to have somebody examine
them every 30 days, and if anything goes wrong that
if you have any sickness or it looks like you might
have some trouble, you contact me and we'll be glad
to. Well, we... What were you looking for? Well,
the first problem that jumped up, the Midwestern
states started raising sound about us having
those Brazilian bulls down here. You're talking
about the U.S. Livestock Sanitary Commission.
Well, those people were all members of the U.S.
Sanitary Commission, U.S. Livestock Sanitary.
But they had a little organization of their own
group up there in the Midwest, in Kansas and
Nebraska and one or two other states. And they were
going to have a meeting up there about this. So I got
on an
airplane and flew up there. And they were going to
quarantine. They were going to embargo against
Texas. Well, I told them what had happened and how I
felt about it and how we were keeping them under
observation. They said, well, that's all right.
That's all right. We think you've got the thing
under control. So I come on back home. Wasn't a week
later that the Florida people started. We're
going to embargo against Texas cattle. They've
got those Brazilian bulls over there. I jump on an
airplane and fly down to Lake Okeechobee and went
into that little old hotel down there and heard a
couple of fellas talking and Yeah, there's a whole
delegation of those so-and-sos coming over here,
but we're going to quarantine their cattle. Man, I
didn't sleep very good that night. I thought,
well, I'm that delegation. We got up the next
morning and went down to this meeting of the
commission. They were meeting at the courthouse
there. And they were discussing a little fever
tick outbreak that they had down there, you know,
coming out of the Everglades. I don't know whether
they still got them or not, but every so often those
deer and whatnot will come out of the Everglades
and bring those old fever ticks and they have to
fight them back you know and they were talking
about how they were handling that situation and I
said I see they came to me and I got up and I said well I
see you this fever tick situation over you people
have got problems over here too but I said we're not
worried in Texas we we feel like you'll take care of
it all right and then I went into details of what we
had done and what we had and how we were handling it
and they said well we think that's all right we
think you can handle your your problems in Texas
too so we broke up here comes an old boy running down
there and said shook hands with me and says boy you
sure did a good job I said what do you mean he says
getting this thing straightened out said you know
If we'd have got that embargo against you, we'd
have sure had a good sale of brame of bulls here in
Florida. He was just laughing about it. So a lot of
those things, a lot of those embargoes are just
economic things, see, for economic reasons. But
the livestock, I got the general impression that
all the, that
the Livestock Sanitary Commission didn't
necessarily promulgate their rules on the basis
of good veterinary medicine and quarantines and
from the basis of good practice in the shipment of
cattle, but they were merely there to kind of help
keep the rest of the country off the Texas bag. Is
that right? Oh, I see your point. That's exactly
right. That's exactly right. And people... You
know, we had some good feeder cattle down here. We
export a lot more cattle than we use, and we have to
constantly be on guard to keep somebody from
quarantining against us. Oh, yeah, yeah. And a lot
of your regulatory laws are simply economic
embargo-type things, you know. The Livestock
Sanitary Commission was more in Oregon at that
time to keep the livestock industry in good stead
with the rest of the country. Isn't that correct?
More necessarily than to prevent the spread of
disease. Well, I'd go to a U.S. livestock meeting,
and I had to be ready to answer questions. I
remember old... The old doctor, the old
veterinarian from Montana, I don't remember his
name now, but he got up one day. No, it was before
him. He got up one day in the meeting, and he says, I
would like to know what the states of the
anaplasmosis states,
namely Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and
Florida, are doing to control... Anaplasmosis.
And I thought, good gosh, how am I going to handle
that? I was going to say, that was a pretty tough
question. How am I going to handle that? Well, this
old veterinarian from Arkansas, what was his
name? Well, anyway, he jumped up and says, I don't
know what these other states are doing, but
Arkansas ain't doing a damn thing. If you'll tell
us something to do, we'll do it. Old man just sat
down.
Oh, yes.
But you know what?
We're still having to fight that battle.
Why do we have an enormous... expenditure of money
for brucellosis eradication in Texas to appease
these other states. We can handle our business
down here. Now, wait a minute. Let's cut that
machine. Let me ask you another question now
before I run this over you. Then we can turn it off
and get on with what you want to say. I, for years,
carried a tremendous brucellosis titer, which
helped me out. But We had a lot of people,
especially up in Minnesota, that got sick with it.
And there wasn't much you could do for it back in
those days. And there isn't too much more you can do
about it now. Don't you think the public health
people are going to keep the heat on? If you can
segregate public health people from veterinary
health people, don't you think they're going to
really put the heat on to continue to work on that?
They have been for, well, when did we start playing
with that. 54, wasn't it? Yeah, that was earlier
than that, really. Yeah, yeah, but we had those
meetings down in Austin over 30 years ago. Yes. And
these...
the USDA will continue to... put pressure on
because they spent two billion dollars and and we
haven't got a whole lot to show for it but they're
gonna have to continue spending a lot of money on it
I guess I don't know I'm not too worried about it I
don't think that I don't think that the government
ought to pay me to vaccinate calves But as long as
they do it, I'm going to take that money and just lay
it and go on. OK. Dan, I'm sure you weren't out of
school very long before you became somewhat
involved in what we call organized veterinary
medicine associations, the AVMA and TVMA and so
forth, and probably belonged to the junior AVMA in
school and belonged to the AVMA and the Texas
Veterinary Medical Association. Looking back on
it, I'd like to have you give little bit of a summary
of what associations can do for a veterinarian
specifically and also what their value is to the
general public
if you can say the two are different of course well
associations
are
in a position to do much more than an individual
could do in raising the standards of a profession
or in changing the rules and regulations or
whatnot. The association does so much that the
individual couldn't even attempt to do and when
you bring association matters before a group of
individuals that are dedicated and capable and
really desiring to come up with the right answers,
they can do so much more for the group than an
individual can. And so I know that that the
veterinary profession
could never be where it is today without our
association. What do you feel in the Texas
Veterinary Medical Association? Have there been
any so-called milestones, or do you feel it's just
kind of grown steadily through the years in
effectiveness and in its scope? We've had our ups
and downs all down through the years. the last 40 or
50 years uh but uh when uh when i was a student yes i
belonged to the student chapter of avma and then
that's one thing that old dr marstella i think uh i
can give him a lot of credit for that he he made me
feel like that that uh there were there were two
things that were a must. I must pass the state
board, and I must belong to the state association
and to the AVMA. It was just
my understanding that that is the thing that you
didn't think about doing anything else but
belonging and contributing in a small way when the
occasion arose.
I just feel that
so many people don't stop to think
how much better off we are today through organized
veterinary medicine.
I'd like to ask you a general question and then a
specific question, some specific steps to that.
You know, the Federal Trade Commission has kind of
gotten after the professions lately, the dental
profession, the medical profession, and the
veterinary profession also, regarding their
monopolistic trade practices and so forth. And
they've kind of gone a little bit hard on so-called
the rules of practice promulgated by the
political arms known as the examining boards. Do
you feel there's a happy medium in that? Do you feel
pressures from both sides? I can see where the
participants want to bring it.